cducrest-brainbot

high

# Unlink hat checks for admin instead of root tree

## Summary

The function to unlink a top hat from a tree checks that the requester is an admin of the top hat of the tree. It should probably check that the caller is the tree root.

## Vulnerability Detail

The docs state: "Linked Hat trees can also be unlinked by the tree root from its linked admin, via Hats.unlinkTopHatFromTree. This causes the tree root to regain its status as a top hat and to once again become its own admin." This infers to me that the function should be callable (and only callable) by the tree root (i.e. the hat that was the top hat before grafting).

It makes sense to me as it is this hat that requested grafting in the first place.

Knowing that after grafting, the tree root is no longer a top hat, so no longer its own admin, in the current code state `unlinkTopHatFromTree`  cannot be called by the tree root to unlink itself from a tree.

## Impact

Ambiguous rules for unlinking a tree root for a tree may result in wrong authorization / responsibilities for DAOs using the protocol.

## Code Snippet

unlinkTopHatFromTree calls `_checkAdmin()` that checks whether the caller is an admin of the top hat of the branch. 

https://github.com/Hats-Protocol/hats-protocol/blob/fafcfdf046c0369c1f9e077eacd94a328f9d7af0/src/Hats.sol#L726-L732

The `_checkAdmin()` fails if the caller is the top hat of a linked tree:

https://github.com/Hats-Protocol/hats-protocol/blob/fafcfdf046c0369c1f9e077eacd94a328f9d7af0/src/Hats.sol#L831-L883

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Decide on desired beahviour and make it explicit in docs / code. I recommend allowing both the admins and the tree root to be able to call `unlinkTopHatFromTree`.