chaduke

medium

# DOS attack to getHatLevel()

## Summary
The ``getHatLevel()`` function uses a recursive call to obtain the level of a given ``_hatId``.  As a result, a malicious user can link ONE tophat domain to another node that has a large level number. As a result, when  ``getHatLevel()`` 
is called on any nodes under the tophat domain, it will revert due to out of gas. 

Another limit is that the number of levels is limited to a maximum of 2^32-1, although theoretically we can have (2^32-1)*14 levels. 

## Vulnerability Detail
The ``getHatLevel()`` function uses a recursive call to obtain the level of a given ``_hatId``.

[https://github.com/Hats-Protocol/hats-protocol/blob/fafcfdf046c0369c1f9e077eacd94a328f9d7af0/src/HatsIdUtilities.sol#L96-L106](https://github.com/Hats-Protocol/hats-protocol/blob/fafcfdf046c0369c1f9e077eacd94a328f9d7af0/src/HatsIdUtilities.sol#L96-L106)

As a result, if there are too many levels, the ``getHatLevel()`` will revert due to out of gas. 

A malicious user can connect a tophat domain to a tree that has too many levels. As a result, ``getHatLevel()`` will revert when it is called on each node under the tophat domain. 

The following code POC shows that when we connect ``1048570`` trees together, and we call ``getHatLevel()`` on the lowest node, we will run out of gas.  One can adjust this number for different execution environment to get the idea of how ``getHatLevel()`` will run out of gas on large tree. 

```javascript
function testLevel() public {
        uint id;
        uint len = 1048570;
    
        for(uint32 i=1; i<=len; i++){
              id = utils.buildHatId(i << 224, 5);
              if(i>1){
                  utils.linkTree(i-1, id); 
              }
        }
        vm.expectRevert();
        utils.getHatLevel(utils.buildHatId(1 << 224, 5));
    }
```


## Impact
A malicious user can launch a DOS attack to ``getHatLevel()`` by connecting a tophat domain to a deep tree. The vulnerability of the function is that it has to use recursion to get the level of a node. 


## Code Snippet

## Tool used
VSCode

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Introduce a data structure so that we will keep track of the level for each tophat domain. In this way, we only need to navigate one tree up to get the level of a node without recursion.

Another advantage of keeping track of the level for each tophat domain is the check of circular links: we can keep track of the highest level of tophat domain we have encountered so far, and if we visit a tophat domain that is smaller than before, then we detect a circle. 

