unforgiven

high

# middle level admins can steal child trees because function unlinkTopHatFromTree() is callable by them

## Summary
in normal scenario middle level admins can't relink a child tree to another tree and when code link a tree it checks that the old and new admin is in the same tree(have same tippy hat). but middle level admins can bypass this buy using unlink logic.

## Vulnerability Detail
a middle level admin can perform this actions:
(x -> y) means x is admin of y (y linked to x)
1. suppose we have this tree: Root0 (admin0) -> H1 (Admin1) -> H2 (Admin2) -> Root3 (Admin3) -> H4 (Admin4). (H1, H2, H4 are hats and Root0 is tophat and Root3 is "root tree")
2. now Admin2 wants to remove (Root3 -> H4) tree from higher level admins(Admin1) access.
3. Admin2 would create new TopHat Root1 and link it to H2. (H2 -> Root1).
4. now Admin2 would change the link of Root3 from H2 to Root1 by calling `relinkTopHatWithinTree(Root3, Root1)`. because Admin2 is admins of the H2 and both Root3 and Root1 is linked to the H2 so this action would be possible. the tree would become: (Root2 -> H1 -> H2 -> Root1 -> Root3 -> H4)
5. now Admin2 would call `unlinkTopHatFromTree(Root3)` and unlink Root1 from Root0 tree. because Admin2 created Root1 he would become admin of the Root1 and would be only one that have admin access to Root3. (Root1 -> Root3 -> H4)

simple unlinking can't always make middle level admin to be new admin so middle level admin should perform one relink and then unlink.

## Impact
middle level admin can steal the child trees and become the solo admin of them

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/Hats-Protocol/hats-protocol/blob/fafcfdf046c0369c1f9e077eacd94a328f9d7af0/src/Hats.sol#L726-L732
https://github.com/Hats-Protocol/hats-protocol/blob/fafcfdf046c0369c1f9e077eacd94a328f9d7af0/src/Hats.sol#L739-L755

## Tool used
Manual Review

## Recommendation
This is a logical issue and fixing it is a little hard. one fix is that only allow the tippy hat admin to unlink a child tree. one another solution is only allow relink if the child tree to upper level trees not another sub level tree. (the path from the tree to the tippy hat)