chaduke

medium

# noCircularLinkage() might fail to detect  circles in the tree

## Summary
``noCircularLinkage(A, B)`` can detect circles that A is involved, but fail to detect the presence of circles of the whole tree in which A is not involved. As a result, when there is a circle in other branches of the tree, the function will get into infinite recursion and revert due to out of gas. The function will fail to detect when there is a circle in another branch that A is not part of. 

## Vulnerability Detail
The main issue of ``noCircularLinkage(A, B)`` is that it assumes: if there is a circle in the tree, then A must be involved. However, circles might exist in various branches, not just in the branch of A. 

[https://github.com/Hats-Protocol/hats-protocol/blob/fafcfdf046c0369c1f9e077eacd94a328f9d7af0/src/HatsIdUtilities.sol#L194-L200](https://github.com/Hats-Protocol/hats-protocol/blob/fafcfdf046c0369c1f9e077eacd94a328f9d7af0/src/HatsIdUtilities.sol#L194-L200)

In the following code POC, we show that five tophats 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, when there is a cycle 2->3->4->5->3,  and 1 is not involved, then ``noCircularLinkage(1, 2)`` will fail to detect the circle and revert due to infinite recursion. 

```javascript
 function testCircularLinks() public {
        uint32 TopHat1 = 1;
        uint32 TopHat2 = 2;
        uint32 TopHat3 = 3;
        uint32 TopHat4 = 4;
        uint32 TopHat5 = 5;
  
        uint id1 = utils.buildHatId(1 << 224, 1);
        uint id2 = utils.buildHatId(2 << 224, 2);
        uint id3 = utils.buildHatId(3 << 224, 3);
        uint id4 = utils.buildHatId(4 << 224, 4);
        uint id5 = utils.buildHatId(5 << 224, 5);
        assertFalse(utils.isTopHat(id1));
  
        utils.linkTree(TopHat1, id2);
        utils.linkTree(TopHat2, id3);
        utils.linkTree(TopHat3, id4);
        utils.linkTree(TopHat4, id5);
        utils.linkTree(TopHat5, id3);
  
        vm.expectRevert();  
        utils.noCircularLinkage(TopHat1, id2);
    }
```

## Impact
noCircularLinkage() might fail to detect  circles in the tree. 

This might create circular management and confuse the power hierarchy in an organization. In addition, many functions (those that use recursions) will revert due to out of gas since they depend on the the property that there is no circle in the tree. For example, ``getHatLevel()`` will revert when there is a circle in the tree.

## Code Snippet
See above

## Tool used
VSCode

Manual Review

## Recommendation
- record each tophat domains that have been visited, when a tophat domain is visited again, then we detect the presence of a circle.
