cducrest-brainbot

high

# Fail to set safe threshold to targetThreshold

## Summary

There is no guarantee that the `signerCount` value of HSG is in sync with the number of valid owners of the safe when owner calls `setTargetThreshold()` to change the target threshold of the HSG. This will be the case if the owner does not call `reconcileSignerCount()` beforehand or during set up of HSG that is being wired to an underlying safe.

This means the function `_setSafeThreshold()` may not be called and the value of `threshold` on the underlying safe remains higher than `targetThreshold` on the HSG.

## Vulnerability Detail

This problem is made worse by the behaviour of `reconcileSignerCount()` which does not update the safe threshold if `validSignerCount > targetThreshold && safe.getThreshold() > targetThresold`.

## Impact

The value of `threshold` on the safe may remain higher than `targetThreshold` on the HSG for a long period of time and go unnoticed to users / owner. This may result in safe tx execution failing unexpectedly.

After safe tx execution `checkAfterExecution()` will call `_getCorrectThreshold()` which will return the value of `targetThreshold` if the number of valid signers is equal to or higher than `targetThreshold`. The check `if (safe.getThreshold() != _getCorrectThreshold()) { revert ... }` will then revert the execution of the transaction.

I believe the impact is high as this issue is likely to arise without being caught and create confusion to users when they try to execute their transaction.

## Code Snippet

setTargetThreshold only sets the safe threshold if `signerCount > 1`:

https://github.com/Hats-Protocol/hats-zodiac/blob/9455cc0957762f5dbbd8e62063d970199109b977/src/HatsSignerGateBase.sol#L95-L103

reconcileSignerCount does not update the safe threshold if `validSignerCount > targetThreshold && safe.getThreshold() > targetThresold`:

https://github.com/Hats-Protocol/hats-zodiac/blob/9455cc0957762f5dbbd8e62063d970199109b977/src/HatsSignerGateBase.sol#L194-L202

Check on safe / HSG threshold: 

https://github.com/Hats-Protocol/hats-zodiac/blob/9455cc0957762f5dbbd8e62063d970199109b977/src/HatsSignerGateBase.sol#L517-L519

https://github.com/Hats-Protocol/hats-zodiac/blob/9455cc0957762f5dbbd8e62063d970199109b977/src/HatsSignerGateBase.sol#L533-L540

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Update the safe threshold under less strict conditions.